"[a list of constitutions has] been deduced from the different appearances of the constitution --- the various effects to which they were prone; the humours considered as inherent; and to the affections of particular parts, which they constantly, or on slight occasions, experience." 
The art of preventing diseases, and restoring health, founded on rational principles, and adapted to persons of every capacity, p.58

"By Disease is meant a general or local affection, by which the system is disturbed, or the action of a part impeded, perverted, or destroyed"
The art of preventing disease, p.202

"this [disease] is discovered and distinguished by an enumeration of certain symptoms or appearances with which it is always associated"
Art of prev. disease, p.202

"Diseases differ form each other, only in the degree of accumulation [withholding of stimuli], or exhaustion of the excitability in the whole, or parts of the body."
View of the science of life, p.31

"The cure of all disease depend upon an application of stimuli, in a degree proportionate to the accumulation, or exhaustion of the excitability."
View of the sci. of life, p.31

"Contagion has been enumerated as a cause of pestilential diseases. But as the existence of such a power is by no means provided, it ought not to be admitted in philosophical disquisitions."
View of the sci. of life, p.33

"an epidemic is more than a particular form of a disease. In the eighteenth century, it was an autonomous, coherent, and adequate evaluation of a disease"
Birth of the clinic, p.23

"there is a 'savage' nature of disease that is both its true nature and its most obedient course: alone, free of intervention, without medical artifice, it reveals the ordered, almost vegetal nature of its essence."
Birth of the clinic, p.16

"Disease is thus caught in a double system of observation: there is a gaze that does not distinguish it from, but re-absorbs it into, all the other social ills to be eliminated; and a gaze which isolates it, with a view to circumscribing its natural truth." 
Birth of the clinic, p.43

"Before being a meeting of patient and doctor, a truth to be deciphered and an ignorance, and in order to be such a meeting, the clinic must form, constitutionally, a structured nosological field."
Birth of the clinic, p.59

"In the hospital, the patient is the subject of his disease, that is, he is a case; in the clinic, where one is dealing only with examples, the patient is the accident of his disease, the transitory object that it happens to have seized upon."
Birth of the Clinic, p.59

"Thus the synthetic, designating speech of knowledge is confronted by the audible language of nature in a chronicle of observations that form a mixed syntax --- a sort of neutral, arbitrary language."
Birth of the clinic, p.62

"Can pain be a spectacle? Not only can it be, but it must be, by virtue of a subtle right that resides in the fact that no one is alone, the poor man less so than the others, since he can obtain assistance only through the mediation of the rich."
Birth of the clinic, p.84

"The symptom -- hence its uniquely privileged position -- is the form in which the disease is presented: of all that is visible, it is closest to the essential; it is the first transcription of the inaccessible nature of the disease."
Birth of the clinic, p.90

"To the exhaustive presence of the disease in its symptoms corresponds the unobstructed transparency of the pathological being with the syntax of a descriptive language: a fundamental isomorphism of the structure of the disease and of the verbal form that circumscribes it."
Birth of the clinic, p.95

"Medicine must no longer be confined to a body of techniques for curing ills ... it will also embrace a knowledge of healthy man, that is, the study of non-sick man and a definition of the model man."
Birth of the clinic, p.34

"medical space can coincide with social space, or, rather, transverse it and wholly penetrate it. One began to conceive of a generalized presence of doctors whose intersecting gazes form a network and exercise at every point in space, and at every moment in time, a constant, mobile, differentiated supervision."
Birth of the clinic, p.31

"Being a collective phenomenon, it [the epidemic] requires a multiple gaze; a unique process, it must be described in terms of its special, accidental, unexpected quantities."
Birth of the clinic, p.25

"A medicine of epidemics is opposed at every point to a medicine of classes, just as the collective perception of a phenomenon that is widespread but unique and unrepeatable may be opposed to the individual perception of the identity of an essence as constantly revealed in the multiplicity of phenomena."
Birth of the clinic, p.26

"The examination leaves behind it a whole meticulous archive constituted in terms of bodies and days."
Discipline & Punish, p.189

"Stones can make people docile and knowable."
Discipline & Punish, p.172

"The examination, surrounded by all its documentary techniques, makes each individual a 'case': a case which at one and the same time constitutes an object for a branch of knowledge and a hold for a branch of power."
Discipline & Punish, p.191

"The history of one of these cases of injury to the knee joint is the history of all"
USSC S1R2No194
